Welcome to the next lesson in this course.
You're about a quarter of the way there and you've learned
some valuable skills in dealing with EHR data.
In this lesson, you will go over EHR code sets which will
give you valuable skills of navigating EHR data.
Before we get started, let's review what will be covered in this lesson.
This lesson will delve into one of the key components of EHR data, code sets.
What is the code set?
It is a standard that provides codes that represents things like diagnoses.
EHR code sets allow further comparison of data across various EHR systems.
In part one, we'll go over diagnosis codes, in particular,
we'll cover ICD10-CM and also little bit about the shift from ICD9 to ICD10.
At the end of this section,
you'll have an understanding what this code set is,
why it's important, how to read them and how to group using these codes as well.
Then we'll go over procedure codes and in this part,
we'll cover ICD10-PCS, CPT and HCPCS.
I know acronyms. It's health care.
There is an acronym for everything.
At the end of procedure codes,
you'll have a solid understanding of what these are,
how to read them and how to use grouping to reduce cardinality of your dataset.
Of course, there are more codes for medications as well.
We'll cover these as well.
Learning more about the NDC Directory and RxNorm code set,
when you are finished with this section,
you'll be able to read medication codes like a pro,
as well as understand how to deal with
the challenges of working with medication code sets.
Lastly, you will learn about grouping and
categorizing these code sets with an intro to CCS,
a system for grouping procedure codes.
By the end of this section,
you'll be able to begin understanding some of the challenges of
grouping codes which can prepare you for more advanced approaches.
There are a lot of acronyms and codes ahead.
Welcome to Healthcare data.
But before we begin,
let's get a little context behind code sets along with a few key terms.